hi this is Barney from BBC good food and
welcome to boss the basic here we're
going to be showing how to fry eggs I'm
going to show you two different types of
eggs I'm sure at the moment you're
looking for inspiration for easy recipes
so let's stay home and get cooking the
first thing we're gonna fry is a classic
fried egg the egg I was taught to
conquer college for a queue up with your
fryer the egg you have with things like
a toasted ham and cheese sandwich by
classic fried egg and this isn't really
fried spit that misdemeanor because it's
more kind of poached in warm oil so
firstly we need to get our pan hot we
don't really want any excess sizzle we
just want the answer to cook gently in
the hot fat in the pan so we're going to
get our pan on a medium heat shimmer
slice my top tip is whenever you're
cracking an egg straight into a pan or
in a bowl do not crack it against the
side of the parent or the bulb because
that's how you get bits of shell in the
pan you want to crack it against
something flat before or surface and
then open the egg into your pan makes it
much easier break
and goes into our pan cook VA Germany in
the fact so can you see there's no
sizzling just a tiny little bit of
movement and that's what we're looking
for we're looking for the egg to cook
really gently in the pan there we just
want the light to cut I mean I want the
yolk to stay runny let me get ourselves
a spoon and as the egg cooks we're just
going to spoon some of the hot fat over
the top of the white if you start to see
it bubbling too much you just turn the
heat now and we don't really want any
more movement and the movement that you
can see around there that's the amount
of sizzle that you want for a classic
Friday if you wanted to you can add some
butter to the pan for flavor I'm just
doing this in a neutral oil some
sunflower oil but butters nice and this
works with the eggs not just chicken
eggs you can do this with buckets by
spooning the fat around the yolk we just
gonna get rid of those sliding it's a
white lip cling video no it's a classic
fried egg and I'm gonna move that the
top toasted ham and cheese sandwich
earning what's known as propolis you
into a croque madame
that just goes like so and that's our
fly deck number one now fried egg number
two similar situation that this is often
done in walks we're going to do the
complete opposite now this is the egg I
will they've got sacked four when I as a
chef we want a lot more oil we want the
oil to be really hot and we're basically
sort of seventy deep frying an egg what
we really get here is a really crispy
egg this is the delicious with like
Asian dishes like fried rice or on top
of noodles or it works really well with
like the band South American flavored
brunches but this is the opposite of the
first one we want the oil hot shimmering
we want everything to be sizzling and
when we crack that egg and we want the
whole thing to bubble up oil getting hot
you can see it's Fox it started to
separate in the pan and then when we're
sure it's all hot we're just going to
crack our egg again cracking the egg on
the surface not on the side of the pan
and then watch out that's gonna sizzle
like go straight in and then want that
to bubble up and then again we're just
going to keep on basting that and let's
go all freely and first thing
I'm still here OC running on this keep
on pouring a hot oil over say all
bubbled up and then as soon as the edges
of Browns and they've gotten crispy
loosen the egg from the term super super
pretty super bubbly and that is egg so
that's two ways to fry an egg we've got
our classic fried egg which I'm serving
with I have and cheese toasted sandwich
we've got runny yolk I just said why
with crispy bits at all then you've got
crispy fried egg which we're having with
fried rice which has got crispy bits
around the edge all these frilly bits
and the yolk is still running in the
middle that's two ways the fried egg
this is the pasta basic to remember stay
home get cooking
thank you very much for watching